.TH "idevicerestore" 1
.SH NAME
idevicerestore \- Restore IPSW firmware at PATH to an iOS device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B idevicerestore
[OPTIONS] PATH

.SH DESCRIPTION

Restore firmware files to iOS devices while either erasing the device or 
updating to preserve content and settings.

\f[B]PATH\f[] can be a compressed .ipsw file or a directory containing all files extracted from an IPSW.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-i, \-\-ecid ECID
Target specific device by its ECID, e.g. 0xaabb123456 (hex) or 1234567890 (decimal).
.TP
.B \-u, \-\-udid UDID
Target specific device by its device UDID.

\f[B]NOTE\f[]: only works with devices in normal mode.
.TP 
.B \-l, \-\-latest
Use latest available firmware (with download on demand).
Before performing any action it will interactively ask
to select one of the currently signed firmware versions,
unless \f[B]\-y\f[] has been given too.

The PATH argument is ignored when using this option.

\f[B]DO NOT USE\f[] if you need to preserve the baseband/unlock!

\f[B]USE WITH CARE\f[] if you want to keep a jailbreakable firmware!
.TP
.B \-e, \-\-erase
Perform full restore instead of update, erasing all data

\f[B]DO NOT USE\f[] if you want to preserve user data on the device!
.TP
.B \-y, \-\-no\-input
Non-interactive mode, do not ask for any input.

\f[B]WARNING\f[]: This will disable certain checks/prompts that are supposed
to prevent DATA LOSS. \f[B]Use with caution\f[].
.TP
.B \-n, \-\-no\-action
Do not perform any restore action. If combined with \f[B]\-l\f[] option
the on-demand ipsw download is performed before exiting.
.TP
.B \-\-ipsw\-info
Print information about the IPSW at PATH and exit.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Prints usage information.
.TP
.B \-C, \-\-cache\-path DIR
Use specified directory for caching extracted or other reused files.
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-debug
Enable communication debugging.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Prints version information.

.SH ADVANCED/EXPERIMENTAL OPTIONS
.TP 
.B \-c, \-\-custom
Restore with a custom firmware (requires bootrom exploit)
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-server URL
Override the default signing server request URL. If the URL doesn't contain
a path component, the default path \f[B]/TSS/controller?action=2\f[] will be added.
.TP
.B \-x, \-\-exclude
Exclude nor/baseband upgrade.

\f[B]NOTE\f[]: This option only works with legacy devices and/or custom firmware.
.TP
.B \-t, \-\-shsh
Fetch TSS record and save to .shsh file, then exit.
.TP
.B \-z, \-\-no\-restore
Do not restore and end after booting to the ramdisk.
.TP
.B \-k, \-\-keep\-pers
Write personalized components to files for debugging.
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-pwn
Put device in pwned DFU mode and exit (limera1n devices only).
.TP
.B \-P, --plain-progress
Print progress as plain step and progress
.TP
.B \-R, \-\-restore\-mode
Allow restoring from Restore mode
.TP
.B \-T, \-\-ticket PATH
Use file at PATH to send as AP ticket
.TP
.B \-\-variant VARIANT
Use given VARIANT to match the build identity to use, e.g. 'Customer Erase Install (IPSW)'
.TP
.B \-\-ignore\-errors
Try to continue the restore process after certain errors (like a failed baseband update).

\f[B]WARNING\f[]: This might render the device unable to boot or only partially functioning. \f[B]Use with caution\f[].

.SH AUTHORS
Martin Szulecki

Nikias Bassen

Joshua Hill

.SH ON THE WEB
https://libimobiledevice.org

https://github.com/libimobiledevice/idevicerestore
